# *Paper title*

by *authors*

> Fill out the sections below with the information for your paper.

This paper has been submitted for publication in *Journal*.

> Brief description of what the paper is about (the key points).
> You can include a main paper figure here also.  
*Caption for the example figure with the main results.*

## Abstract

> Paper abstract

## Code implementation and references

> Briefly describe the software/scripts used to produce the results of the
> paper. The following is an example:

All source code used to generate the results and figures in the paper are in
the `code` folder.
The data used in this study is provided in `data` and the sources for the
manuscript text and figures are in `manuscript`.
Results generated by the code are saved in `results`.
See the `README.md` files in each directory for a full description.

## Using the code

You can download a copy of all the files in this repository by cloning the
[git](https://git-scm.com/) repository:

    git clone https://github.com/antonia-had/paper_template.git

or [download a zip archive](https://github.com/antonia-had/paper_template/archive/master.zip).

A copy of the repository is also archived at *insert DOI here*


## Dependencies

> Depending on your project, the script might depend on several other packages
> to run. If using Python, you can use a '.yml' file specifying your dependencies. 
> You can create one and place it in the repository so subsequent users take it
> and create a Python environment with all they need to replicate your results.
> This section should then describe how one can set up an environment with the 
> dependencies necessary to run your code.

You'll need Python *version number* to run the code. 
You can set up an environment with all dependencies using an environment manager
like [Anaconda Python distribution](https://www.anaconda.com/download/) which
provides the `conda` package manager.
Anaconda can be installed in your user directory and does not interfere with
the system Python installation.
The required dependencies are specified in the file `environment.yml`.

Run the following command in the repository folder (where `environment.yml`
is located) to create a separate environment and install all required
dependencies in it:

    conda env create

## Reproducing the results

Before running any code you must activate the conda environment:

    source activate ENVIRONMENT_NAME

or, if you're on Windows:

    activate ENVIRONMENT_NAME

This will enable the environment for your current terminal session.
Any subsequent commands will use software that is installed in the environment.

To build and test the software, produce all results and figures, and compile
the manuscript PDF, run this in the top level of the repository:

    make all

If all goes well, the manuscript PDF will be placed in `manuscript/output`.

You can also run individual steps in the process using the `Makefile`s from the
`code` and `manuscript` folders. See the respective `README.md` files for
instructions.

Another way of exploring the code results is to execute the Jupyter notebooks
individually.
To do this, you must first start the notebook server by going into the
repository top level and running:

    jupyter notebook

This will start the server and open your default web browser to the Jupyter
interface. In the page, go into the `code/notebooks` folder and select the
notebook that you wish to view/run.

The notebook is divided into cells (some have text while other have code).
Each cell can be executed using `Shift + Enter`.
Executing text cells does nothing and executing code cells runs the code
and produces it's output.
To execute the whole notebook, run all cells in order.


## License

All source code is made available under a BSD 3-clause license. You can freely
use and modify the code, without warranty, so long as you provide attribution
to the authors. See `LICENSE.md` for the full license text.

The manuscript text is not open source. The authors reserve the rights to the
article content, which is currently submitted for publication in the
JOURNAL NAME.
